>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
OCTOBER 6th, U.S. CAPTURES
TERRORIST.
U.S. NAVY S.E.A.L.S GO AFTER AND
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
FOREGOING OUR TRADITIONA
COLLEGE EDUCATION.
>> I REMEMBER SITTING IN M
CLASS AND AN ENTREPRENEUR WA
USING THAT 90 MINUTES TO FURTHER
HIS CAREER
>> NEXT ON PBS, NEWS HOU
WEEKEND.
>> GOOD EVENING, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US
DETAILS EMERGE TODAY ABOUT THOSE
TWO SURPRISE RAIDS BY U.S.
FORCES IN AFRICA YESTERDAY
SECRETARY KERRY SAID THE
MISSIONS PROVED AMERICA'
RESOLVE IN THE WAR ON TERROR
>> WE HOPE THIS MAKES CLEAR THAT
AMERICA WILL HOLD THOS
ACCOUNTABLE THOSE WHO ATTACK
THEY CAN RUN BUT THEY CAN'
HIDE
WE WILL CONTINUE TO TRY TO BRING
PEOPLE TO JUSTICE IN APPROPRIATE
WAYS WITH HOPES THAT PEOPLE WITH
THESE ACTIVITIES WILL STOP
>> WORD OF THE RAIDS CONDUCTED
SOME 2,000 MILES APART
FIRST TRICKLED OUT YESTERDAY
EVENING.
IN LIBYA AMERICAN COMMAND DOES
WITH FBI AND CIA AGENTS CA
CAPTURED A HIGH RANKING AL QAEDA
LEADER
THE PENTAGON ISSUED A STATEMEN
TODAY SAID AL LIBI HAD BEE
INDICTED IN A U.S. FEDERAL COURT
IN 2000 IN CONNECTION WITH
ATTACKS.
BUT THE RAID IN SOMALIA BY NAV
S.E.A.L.S WAS RETALIATION FO
THE AL SHABAAB MILITANT GROUP ON
A MALL IN KENYA.
THEY ENGAGED IN AN HOUR-LONG
FIRE FIGHT WITH MILITANTS BEFORE
WITHDRAWING.
THE TEAM WAS FORCED TO WITHDRA
BEFORE IT WAS ABLE TO CONFIR
THAT IT HAD KILLED IT'S TARGET
SO, I HAVE TO ASK, HOW DEAL IS
THE PRESENCE OF ISLAMIC MILL
MILITANCY NOW?
>> FOR YEARS AMERICA HAS FEARE
THE SMALL CONFLICTS AND SECURITY
VACUUMS WOULD ALLOW AL QAEDA T
IMBED ITSELF IN THESE LOCAL WARS
AND USE THEM TO TARGET AMERICA
INTERESTS.
SO FAR THAT HAS NOT HAPPENED
BUT IN RECENT YEARS, IT HA
BECOME MORE AND MORE OF
REALITY AND IN THE WESTGAT
ATTACK IN WHICH AL QAEDA FORCE
COORDINATED WITH THE LOCAL REBEL
MOVEMENT INDICATES THAT TH
THREAT MAY BE VERY REAL.
ARE THEY MOVING OUT OF SOMALIA
AND ACROSS LIBYA AND
ING FOOTHOLDS IN OTHER COUNTRIES
AS WELL?
>> AL SHABAAB IS THE GROUP THA
IS THOUGHT TO HAVE COMMITTED THE
ATTACK
THEY ARE NOT KNOWN TO HAVE
TIES IN LIBYA OR MALI.
IT IS LIKELY THAT A GROU
WORKING WITH THEM HAD THOS
CONTACTS
AT THIS POINT YOU ARE LOOKING AT
A SHABAAB ATTACKING UGANDA AND
ETHIOPIA AS PART OF THE WAR ON
TERROR
>> DO THESE COUNTRIES BECOME OUR
NEW FRONT LINES FOR THE WAR ON
TERROR
>> WELL, THESE COUNTRIES ARE
EXCUSES BASICALLY.
THE SMALL CONFLICTS THAT ARE
TAKING PLACE ON THE LOCAL LEVE
ALLOW AL QAEDA TO INFILTRATE
THESE PLACES
THEY HAVE REASONS TO WORK WITH
AL QAEDA OPERATIVES.
OVER THE YEARS, AL QAEDA HAS
BEEN UNABLE TO OPERATE IN OTHE
COUNTRIES.
IT WAS A REASON FOR AL QAEDA T
PERSUADE SOMALI THAT KENYA WAS
AN ENEMY AND DESERVING OF AN
ATTACK
AND THE QUESTION FOR THE UNITE
STATES IS, HOW SUCCESSFUL WILL
AL QAEDA CONTINUE TO BE AT USING
AFRICA'S SMALL WARS TO HURT U.S.
INTERESTS?
>> WHAT ARE THE U.S. INTERESTS
IN GOING AFTER THEM WHAT ARE OUR
THREATS DOE MESSICALLY
>> I THINK THERE ARE VERY LITTLE
THREATS AT THIS POINT.
50 SOMALIS WHO HAVE U.S.
PASSPORTS HAVE LEFT THE UNITED
STATES AND GONE TO SOMALIA
THERE IS A REMOTE POSSIBILIT
THAT THEY WILL COME BACK AND
LAUNCH AND ATTACK.
THE U.S. IS WORRIED ABOUT AL
QAEDA OPERATIVES
THEY ARE COORDINATING WITH THE
RADICALS
THE U.S. HAS LITTLE REASON T
WORRY ABOUT AL SHABAAB ITSEL
BECAUSE IT IS PRIMARILY AN
INSURGESY.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>> THERE WAS STILL ANOTHER
APPARENT TERROR INCIDENT TODAY
THIS ONE IN YEMEN.
GUN MEN ATTEMPTED TO KIDNAPPING.
>> UNDER TERMS OF THE RECENTLY
APPROVED UN SECURITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION
SYRIA'S ENTIRE CHEMICAL WEAPON
STOCK PILE IS TO BE DESTROYED.
>> PEOPLE WERE KILLED WHEN
POLICE FIRED ON SUPPORTERS O
THE PRESIDENT OF THE MUSLI
BROTHERHOOD.
HE HAD BEEN DEMOCRATICALLY
ELECTED LAST YEAR.
IRAN ARRESTED FOUR PEOPLE THAT
THEY SAID WERE TRYING TO
SABOTAGE ONE OF FOUR PEOPLE.
IRAN HAS BLAMED ISRAEL FOR A
SERIES OF ASSASSINATIONS
IN CHINA, ANOTHER DAY OF
HORRIBLE AIR POLLUTION
LEADING TO FLIGHT CANCELLATION
AND DELAYS AND CAUSING HEADACHES
FOR VACATIONERS ON THEIR WAY
HOME
THE CITY HAS MORE THAN 2
MILLION PEOPLE AND FIVE MILLIO
CARS
THE U.S. EMBASSY SAYS THE LEVELS
OF POLLUTION ARE HAZARDOUS T
HEALTH AND ISSUED A POLLUTIO
ALERT.
>> BACK AT THE NATION'S CAPITO
TODAY A PARTIAL GOVERNMENT SHU
DOWN CONTINUES FOR A 6th DAY AND
EFFORTS APPEAR TO BE GOING
NOWHERE.
THAT COULD HAPPEN 11 DAYS FROM
NOW IF THE DEBT CEILING IS NOT
RAISED
HOUSE SPEAKER, JOHN BOEHNER,
INSISTED THAT THE PRESIDEN
NEGOTIATE IMMEDIATELY.
>> WE ARE NOT GOING TO PASS IT
WHEN THE VOTES ARE NOT IN TH
HOUSE TO PASS A CLEAN DEBT
LIMIT.
AND HE IS RISKING DEFAULT BY NOT
HAVING A CONVERSATION WITH US.
>> THE PRESIDENT HAD SAID HE
WILL OPEN CONVERSATIONS BUT ONLY
AFTER THE SHUTDOWN IS LIFTED
>> THE PRESIDENT DOES NOT HAVE
THE AUTHORITY TO TAKE ACTION I
THAT KIND OF A WAY
HE HAS CONSULTED WITH HI
LAWYERS AND THAT IS TH
CONCLUSION THAT HE HAS REACHED
OF COURSE THE SO-CALLED WAR ON
TERROR BEGAN IN AFGHANISTA
WEEKS AFTER THE SEPTEMBER 11th
ATTACKS.
TROOPS ARE STILL DEPLOYED IN
THAT COUNTRY AND FOUR OF THE
WERE KILLED TODAY IN A BOMBING
IN THE SOUTH
>> FOR THE LATEST ABOUT ALL OF
THIS WE ARE JOINED BY MATTHE
RESENBERG FROM KABUL
WHERE ARE WE IN THE PLANS FO
TROOP WITHDRAWAL
>> THE PLAN IS A SMALL RESIDUA
FORCE UP TO 9,000 PEOPLE TO HELP
TRAIN THE AFGHANS WITH A SMALLER
COUNTER TERRORISM FORCE.
GUYS WHO WOULD GO OUT AN
CONTINUE THE FIGHT AGAINST A
QAEDA HERE
THE THING IS THAT IS CONTINGEN
ON THE AFGHANS AND THE
AMERICANS.
AFTER 2014 WHEN THEIR LEGA
MANDATE ENDS AND EVERYBODY SAI
WE ARE GOING TO GET THAT DON
BUT IN THE LAST FEW MONTHS, TH
IMPASSE HAS GOTTEN LONGER AN
LONGER AND WITHIN THE WHIT
HOUSE, YOU CAN TELL A GROWIN
CONTINGENCY, LET'S JUST LEAVE WE
DON'T NEED TO BE HERE ANYMORE.
WHY ARE WE TRY SNG
>> WHAT ARE THE CONCERNS THA
LEADERS HAVE ABOUT REDUCING OU
TROOP LEVELS TO ZERO
>> THE AMERICANS HAVE SAID I
THE MILITARY LEAVES THE AID THAT
THEY DEPEND ON, THEY ARE NOT
GOING TO GET THE MONEY
AFGHANISTAN IS NOT A COUNTRY
THAT CAN SUPPORT ITSELF.
THE SECURITY FORCES, HOW THE
GOVERNMENT RUNS.
THE AFGHAN ARMY DOES NOT HAV
AIR SUPPORT.
IT NEEDS HELP.
AND IF WE LEAVE, IT WON'T GE
THAT HELP.
>> PERHAPS THIS IS A QUESTION OF
LOGISTICS.
BUT HOW SOON IS THIS GOING TO BE
MADE
>> NOT AS SOON AS YOU THINK.
THE WITHDRAWAL PLAN HAS TH
NUMBERS DOWN BY FEBRUARY
YOU CAN GET ROUGHLY 10,000
TROOPS OUT A MONTH
I THINK FOR THE ADMINISTRATION
THEY DON'T WANT TO HAVE A REPEAT
OF WHAT HAPPENED IN IRAQ
IT LOOKS BAD AT HOME AND THE
HAVE TO PULL 8,000 OR 9,00
PEOPLE OUT
>> SO, WE HAVE ALSO SEEN RELEASE
OF HIGH PROFILE TALIBAN LEADER
FROM PAKISTAN.
WHERE ARE WE IN NEGOTIATING WITH
THE TALIBAN?
>> WE HAVE TO KNOW WHERE I'M AT.
THERE WAS AN ATTEMPT TO OPEN
THIS OFFICE WITH THE TALIBAN
PUTTING UP A FLAG AND SAYING
THAT HE WON'T DO IT IF THEY AR
GOING TO ACT LIKE A SEPARATE
GOVERNMENT
IT HAS BEEN A GOOD CONFIDENC
BUILDING MEASURE AND THE
AMERICANS ARE TRYING T
ENCOURAGE THAT
BUT IN TERMS OF ACTUAL TALKS
THEY ARE -- THEY HAVE BEEN
STALLED AND HAVE NOT STARTED U
AGAIN.
MATTHEW, THANK YOU SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>> FOLLOW MATTHEW'S REPORTING ON
THE GROUND AND IN AFGHANISTAN.
VISIT OUR WEBSITE.
AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, ORIGINAL IN DEPTH
REPORTS ABOUT IMPORTANT TOPICS
HERE AND ABROAD.
TONIGHT OUR FOCUS IS ABOUT
HIGHER EDUCATION
AND WHETHER THE GROWING EXPENSES
ARE ACTUALLY WORTH IT.
BUT MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE
LOOKING FOR ALTERNATIVES
EVERY YEAR THOUSANDS OF YOUN
PEOPLE AROUND THE COUNTR
CELEBRATE THIS IMPORTANT RIGHT
OF PASSAGE, COLLEGE GRADUATION
FOR GENERATIONS IT HAS BEEN TH
TRADITIONAL ROUTE TO ADULTHOOD
AND SUCCESS.
HOW DID HE END UP HERE WORKING
SIDE-BY-SIDE WITH THE PRESIDEN
OF A MULTI MILLION DOLLAR TECH
START-UP
>> THE LIMIT WAS A 4.0
HERE, IT IS IF I WORK HARD
ENOUGH I CAN ACCOMPLISH WHAT I
WANT TO DO
>> HE GOT THIS JOB THROUGH
INSTITUTE.
IT IS A TWO YEAR PROGRAM THA
AIMS TO BE AN ALTERNATIVE TO
WHAT AIMS TO BE A HIGHER
ALTERNATIVE.
HE WORKS WITH THE PRESIDENT OF
AIR TIME
VIDEO COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
>> HE IS IN A GREAT JOB OF
GRABBING ONTO A TASK AND
RECEIVING INPUT AND LEARNING
ALONG THE WAY.
IT HAS ACTUALLY BEEN PRODUCTIV
FOR US
MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE LOOKING
FOR ALTERNATIVES FOR A COLLEGE
EDUCATION.
PROBABLY BECAUSE THEY EARN MOR
OVER THEIR LIFE TIME, RECENT
COLLEGE GRADS HAVE STRUGGLED
THESE KINDS OF NUMBERS ARE WHA
PROMPTED THEM TO ACT
>> WE BELIEVE THAT YOU NEED TO
LEARN.
YOU DON'T JUST GRADUATE HIGH
SCHOOL READY TO RUN A COMPANY.
WE JUST BELIEVE THAT YOU NEED TO
LEARN IN DIFFERENT WAYS.
>> BOTH ARE BIG BELIEVERS THAT
LEARNING ON THE JOB PROVIDES
MORE VALUE THAN LEARNING IN TH
CLASSROOM.
>> I JOINED THE STARRED UP
COMMUNITY WITH A HARVARD MBA I
WAS THE BIGGEST THING.
I STOPPED MENTIONING THAT I WA
AN MBA, PEOPLE HAVE MANY
INTERPRETATIONS OF WHAT THAT
MEANS AND THEY DON'T KNOW HO
GOOD YOU ARE
I STARTED WORKING AT ANOTHER
START-UP FOR ME.
SOON AFTER, WHEN SHE GOT A JOB
HER BLOOF WAS REINFORCED THA
EXPERIENCE WAS MORE IMPORTAN
THAN A FANCY DEGREE.
>> NO MATTER WHAT SCHOOLS THEY
KIM FROM
THEY COULDN'T THINK THROUG
ANYTHING AND IT DIDN'T GIVE ME
CONFIDENCE IF I GIVE YOU A TAS
COULD YOU GET THIS DONE.
>> SHE AND SARHAN QUIT THEIR
JOBS AND CREATED INSTITUTE
THEY RAISED $90,000 BY
LIQUIDATING THEIR SAVINGS.
WHEN THEY SOLICITED APPLICATIO
MANY APPLIED BUT ONLY 11 WER
CHOSEN
>> THIS IS WHAT I HAVE BEE
LOOKING FOR.
>> TAKE SEBASTIAN'S STANCE
HE LEFT AFTER A YEAR AND A HALF.
>> THEY MAKE YOU A WHOLE PERSON.
DO YOU MISS THOSE KINDS OF
CLASSES?
>> NO, I REMEMBER OUR FRESHMAN
YEAR SITTING IN MY ASTRONOMY
CLASS.
IT WAS NOT EVEN A COURSE AND I
REMEMBER SITTING IN THE CLAS
THINKING THAT A STUDENT LIKE A
ENTREPRENEUR WAS USING THAT 90
MINUTES TO FURTHER HIS CAREER.
>> BUT THEY SPEND AT LEAST 4
HOURS A WEEK WORKING FOR TEC
COMPANIES THAT PROVIDE TWO YEA
APPRENTICESHIPS.
COMPANIES INCLUDE BENTLY
THRILLEST AND FLAVORPILL
>> FOR THE LAST YEAR EACH FELLOW
LIVED FOR FREE IN THIS MANHATTAN
APARTMENT.
AND LIVING ON THEIR EARNINGS O
800 TO $1000 A MONTH
SOME WOULD SAY IT IS VERY LITTLE
PAY AND THERE IS NO GUARANTE
THAT THEY WILL GET JOBS IN THA
INDUSTRY
I THINK IF YOU WOULD COME AN
ASK THEM, THEY WOULD 100
DISAGREE WITH YOU.
THE ON THE JOB TRAINING AN
EDUCATION THAT THEY ARE GETTING.
>> ONCE OR TWICE A WEEK THEY
INVITE TECH ENTREPRENEURS TO
NETWORK WITH THE FELLOWS
>> THE INDUSTRY AS A WHOLE HAS
GOTTEN USED TO THE IDEA OF
STUDENTS GOT GOING TO COLLEGE.
A WEEKLY NEWS SERVICE THAT
COVERS ACADEMIC AFFAIRS.
HE SAYS THAT HIGHER EDUCATION IS
IN A STATE OF CRISIS
FOR PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES ALONE IS
IN A STATE OF INFLATION MAKING
IT UNAFFORDABLE FOR MANY
RIGHT NOW, WE HAVE THIS ONE SIZE
FITS ALL SYSTEM AND STUDENTS
WANT TO HAVE A CHANCE TO WOR
AND STUDY A BROAD.
THEY WANT TO HAVE A CHANCE T
LEARN ONLINE
THIS IS A PLACE WHERE WE SAY HOW
DO WE BUILD INTO THE CURRICULUM?
>> THEY SEE THIS AS AN
ALTERNATIVE TO COLLEGE
>> I SEE THEM AS AN ALTERNATIV
TO COLLEGE AT 18
BUT HAVING A COLLEGE DEGREE AT
SOME POINT IN YOUR LIFE IS STILL
THE BEST INSURANCE OF GETTIN
HIGHER SALARIES OVER THE COURS
OF YOUR LIFE TIME.
>> EVEN SO, MORE AND MORE OF
THESE ARE POPPING UP
PAYPAL FOUNDER STARTED A
FELLOWSHIP TO YOUNG ADULTS T
SKIP COLLEGE AND FOCUS O
ENTREPRENEURS FULL TIME.
>> AND MY FEELING IN SCHOOL IS A
NINE MONTH RESIDENTIAL PROGRAM
IN SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP
HE SAYS THESE SHOULD B
ENCOURAGED
>> USED TO BE IN THE UNITE
STATES THAT APPRENTICESHIPS USED
TO BE VERY BIG
AND YOU KIND OF LEARNED ON THE
JOB.
AND THIS IS STILL TRUE IN PART
OF THE WORLD
A LOT OF STUDENTS END UP GOING
TO APPRENTICESHIPS INSTEAD O
COLLEGE.
>> AS IT PLANS TO EXPAND AND
OPEN OFFICES THIS JANUARY.
HE'S BEEN OFFERED A FULL-TIM
JOB AT A COMPANY WHERE HE IS
DOING HIS APPRENTICESHIP
CREATING TECH NICKEL INNOVATIONS
IN THE CAMPAIGN FIELD.
WHAT HAPPENS IF YOUR DREAM
AREN'T REALIZED AND YOU NEED T
GO BACK INTO THE JOB MARKET?
>> I THINK COLLEGE IS ALWAYS
GOING TO BE THERE.
AND SO IF WORSE COMES TO WORSE I
GUESS I CAN GO BACK TO COLLEGE
>> THIS IS PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND
SUNDAY
>> AND NOW THE CONNECTION.
WE LOVE AN AWARDS CEREMONY AND
IN AMERICA WE TEND TO GIVE
AWARDS OUT FOR ANYTHING.
IN THE FIM WORLD THERE IS TH
RAZZIES.
I WANT TO THANK THE CAST
IT IS IMPORTANT IN ORDER TO GIVE
A BAD PERFORMANCE LIKE I DID YOU
NEED A LOT OF BAD ACTORS AROUN
YOU.
IN THE FASHION WORLD RICHARD
BLACKWELL BECAME FAMOUS FOR HI
WORST DRESSED LIST
THE IG NOBEL PRIZES WERE AWARDED
LAST MONTH CELEBRATE NOT THE
WORST SCIENTIFIC ACHIEVEMENT
BUT THE FUNNIEST
>> EVERY WINNER HAS DONE
SOMETHING THAT FIRST MAKES
PEOPLE LAUGH AND THEN THINK.
THEY STUDIED SCIENTISTS WH
STUDIES OPERA ON MOUSE HEART
TRANSPLANT PATIENTS TO THE
TALENTS OF DUNG BEETLES.
>> SOME PEOPLE THINK SCIENCE I
CRAP
TO THE POSSIBILITY OF RUNNING ON
WATER ON THE MOON.
THE CEREMONY SOMETIMES FEATURE
PEOPLE DEMONSTRATING NEW
INVENTIONS LIKE THIS BRA CREATED
AFTER A NUCLEAR REACTO
ACCIDENT
>> YE -- PLEASE.
>> BUT MORE THAN ANYTHING ELSE
THE CEREMONY PROVIDES A VENUE TO
SHOW THAT EVEN THE MINDS I
SCIENCE STILL LIKE TO HAVE A
GOOD LAUGH
>> ON THE NEWS HOUR TOMORROW
ON AIR AND ONLINE THE LATEST O
THE SHUT DOWN AND THE SUPREM
COURT KICKS OFF IT'S TURN.
PLUS MORE ANALYSIS OF THE RAID
IN SOMALI AND LIBYA.
THAT IS IT FOR THIS WEEKEND.
THANK YOU FOR WATCHING